Acd 600 (#15)
Actindo-AG/Documentation: Taxes/Integration/01_ManageTaxRates.md

[!!Accounting](RetailSuiteAccounting)  

> [!!Fakturierung](RetailSuiteFaktBase)  

Reviewer: Bin nicht sicher, ob Fakturierung hier wirklich reingehört. Der Bezug zu dem Modul ist eher indirekt.

[!!User Interface Tax rates](../UserInterface/01a_TaxRates.md)  
[!!Manage the tax classes](./02_ManageTaxClasses.md)  
[!!Manage the tax zones](./03_ManageTaxZones.md)  

# Manage the tax rates

Generally speaking, a tax rate is the percentage to which a product is taxed and depends on the product type (tax class) and the territory where it is to be taxed (tax zone). The *Taxes* module allows to configure different tax rates according to a combination of tax class and tax zone.

Tax rates can be created, edited and deleted to adapt the automatic taxation feature to the customer's specific and changing needs.

## Create a tax rate

Create a tax rate to cover a specific tax regime.

#### Prerequisites  

> - An applicable tax class is created, see [Create a tax class](./02_ManageTaxClasses.md#create-a-tax-class).
> - An applicable tax zone is created, see [Create a tax zone](./02_ManageTaxZones.md#create-a-tax-zone).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An applicable tax class has been created, see [Create a tax class](./02_ManageTaxClasses.md#create-a-tax-class).
- An applicable tax zone has been created, see [Create a tax zone](./02_ManageTaxZones.md#create-a-tax-zone).
```

#### Procedures

*Taxes > Settings > Tab TAX RATES*

![Tax rates](../../Assets/Screenshots/Taxes/Settings/TaxRates/TaxRates.png "[Tax rates]")

1. Click the ![Add](../../Assets/Icons/Plus01.png "[Add]") (Add) button in the bottom right corner.   
  The *Create tax rate* view is displayed.  

  ![Create a tax rate](../../Assets/Screenshots/Taxes/Settings/TaxRates/CreateTaxRate.png "[Create a tax rate]")

> 2. Enter the applicable tax rate in the *Tax rate* field.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Enter the desired tax rate in the *Tax rate* field. The tax rate is entered as a percentage. You can only enter numbers in the *Tax rate* field. 
```

> 3. Enter the applicable tax key in the *Tax key* field. The tax keys can be checked, created, edited and deleted in the *Accounting* module, see [Manage the tax keys](../../RetailSuiteAccounting/Integration/02_ManageTaxKeys.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Enter the corresponding tax key in the *Tax key* field. The tax keys care managed in the *Accounting* module, see [Manage the tax keys](../../RetailSuiteAccounting/Integration/02_ManageTaxKeys.md).
```

>   > [Info] Choosing the right tax key is essential for the automatic posting function in the *Accounting* module, as the *Taxes* module provides the *Invoicing* module with the configured tax key, which in turn is used by the *Invoicing* module to post the transaction in the *Accounting* module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  > [Info] Choosing the right tax key is essential for the automatic posting function in the *Accounting* module, as the *Taxes* module provides the *Order management* module with the configured tax key, which in turn is used by the *Invoicing* module to post the transaction in the *Accounting* module.
```

[comment]: <> (Check with FH if this is correct. It is possible to save the tax rate without tax key. How does it affect performance with Fakturierung, if no tax key or a wrong tax key, z.B. already in use with other tax rate/Steuersatz, is used? Does it affect bookings/posting in Accounting? Does the system give an error message? Or does it simply not work/book automatically the transaction?)

> 4. Click the *Tax zone* drop-down list and select the appropriate tax zone.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Click the *Tax zone* drop-down list and select the appropriate tax zone. All available tax zones are displayed in the list.
```

> 5. Click the *Tax class* drop-down list and select the appropriate tax class.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Click the *Tax class* drop-down list and select the appropriate tax class. All available tax classes are displayed in the list.
```

> 6. Enter the applicable tax rate validity period in the *Start date* and *End date* fields. You can enter the date with the keyboard or clicking the ![Add](../../Assets/Icons/Calendar.png "[Calendar]") (Calendar) button. The date format must be YYYY.MM.DD. hh:mm:ss.

Reviewer: 1. Ich muss nur das start date eingeben, nicht aber das enddatum. Daher zwei schritte daraus machen:
- enter start date
- if desired, enter end date 
2. erklären, dass das start date nicht früher liegen als das eines existierenden steuersatzes mit gleicher steuerklasse und -zone 
3. erklären, was ist, wenn man kein enddatum einträgt
4. das datum mit uhrzeit sollte man nicht manuell eingeben. nur den weg mit Klick auf den Kalenderbutton beschreiben. 
5. wie kommst du auf das angegebene Datumsformat? Das stimmt so nicht...

7. Click the [SAVE] button.  
The *Create tax rate* view closes automatically and the tax rate list is displayed again.  

> 8. Refresh the tax rates list view to display the changes made. To do so, click the ![Refresh](../../Assets/Icons/Refresh01.png "[Refresh]") (Refresh) button in the upper right corner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Click the ![Refresh](../../Assets/Icons/Refresh01.png "[Refresh]") (Refresh) button in the upper right corner.   
The new tax rate is displayed in the list of tax rates.
```

## Edit a tax rate

Edit a tax rate to adjust any of the configured parameters.

> [Info] Editing a tax rate has far-reaching consequences for the proper functioning of the system, as the *Taxes* module interacts with the *Invoicing* and *Accounting* modules. In case of doubt, contact our customer support.

#### Prerequisites

A tax rate is created, see [Create a tax rate](#create-a-tax-rate).

#### Procedures

*Taxes > Settings > Tab TAX RATES*

![Tax rates](../../Assets/Screenshots/Taxes/Settings/TaxRates/TaxRates.png "[Tax rates]")

1. Click the tax rate to be edited in the tax rate list.  
The *Edit tax rate* view is displayed.

  ![Edit tax rate](../../Assets/Screenshots/Taxes/Settings/TaxRates/EditTaxRate.png "[Edit tax rate]")

2. Edit the desired data in the corresponding field(s).

  > [Info] Be aware that any changes made to an existing tax rate will overwrite the previously configured values.

3. Click the [SAVE] button.  
The *Edit tax rate* view closes automatically and the tax rate list is displayed again.  

> 4. Refresh the tax rates list view to display the changes made. To do so, click the ![Refresh](../../Assets/Icons/Refresh01.png "[Refresh]") (Refresh) button in the upper right corner.

Author: ```suggestion
4. Click the ![Refresh](../../Assets/Icons/Refresh01.png "[Refresh]") (Refresh) button in the upper right corner.   
The edited tax rate is displayed in the list of tax rates.```

## Delete a tax rate

Delete a tax rate that is no longer applicable.

> [Warning] Be aware that any deletion is permanent and cannot be undone.

#### Prerequisites

A tax rate is created, see [Create a tax rate](#create-a-tax-rate).

#### Procedures

*Taxes > Settings > Tab TAX RATES*

![Tax rates](../../Assets/Screenshots/Taxes/Settings/TaxRates/TaxRates.png "[Tax rates]")

> 1. Select the tax rate to be deleted by clicking the checkbox on the left.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Select the checkbox of the tax rate to be deleted.  
```

The deleted tax rate is removed from the list of tax rates.

[comment]: <> (17.08.22 - DELETE Button not working. Bug reported. Check again when fixed if Refresh button is needed here.)

## Define the tax rates for delivery thresholds

Define the necessary tax rates to include tax delivery thresholds in the system configuration.

> [Info] As of July 2021, a new EU-wide threshold of 10,000 EUR applies. As soon as this threshold has been reached, all products must be taxed in the ship-to (delivery) country to the corresponding delivery country tax rate. For detailed information about the new cross-border taxation rules, see [VAT - One Stop Shop](https://vat-one-stop-shop.ec.europa.eu/index_en) or consult a tax advisor.

#### Prerequisites

- All applicable tax classes have been created, see [Create a tax class](./02_ManageTaxClasses.md#create-a-tax-class).
- All applicable tax zones have been created, see [Create a tax zone](./03_ManageTaxZones.md#create-a-tax-zone).

#### Procedures

*Taxes > Settings > Tab TAX RATES*

![Tax rates](../../Assets/Screenshots/Taxes/Settings/TaxRates/TaxRates.png "[Tax rates]")

> [comment]: <> (Unsicher - Subprocedures mit H3? Beide gehören zusammen, denn man braucht zwei Tax rates mit zwei unteschiedlichen Gültigkeitszeiträume. Problem mit selben Tax zone wäre dann für die Decision Matrix, denn da kann man bei der Einstellung von jeder Zeile unterscheiden können.)

Reviewer: Ja, kannst du beide mit H3 machen, dann aber jeweils mit h4 prerequisites und procedure für jede der beiden Prozeduren. 
Den zweiten Teil musst du mir nochmal erklären, wenn ich wieder da bin, das verstehe ich nicht mit der tax zone in der decision matrix =D

The edited tax rate is displayed in the list of tax rates.

## Delete a tax rate

Delete a tax rate that is no longer applicable.

> [Warning] Be aware that any deletion is permanent and cannot be undone.

#### Prerequisites

A tax rate has been created, see [Create a tax rate](#create-a-tax-rate).

#### Procedures

*Taxes > Settings > Tab TAX RATES*

![Tax rates](../../Assets/Screenshots/Taxes/Settings/TaxRates/TaxRates.png "[Tax rates]")

1. Select the checkbox of the tax rate to be deleted.  
The editing toolbar is displayed.

  > [Warning] Be aware that the existing tax rate will be deleted permanently.

2. Click the [DELETE] button in the upper right corner.  
The selected tax rate has been deleted.

3. Click the ![Refresh](../../Assets/Icons/Refresh01.png "[Refresh]") (Refresh) button in the upper right corner.   
The deleted tax rate is removed from the list of tax rates.

[comment]: <> (17.08.22 - DELETE Button not working. Bug reported. Check again when fixed if Refresh button is needed here.)

## Define the tax rates for delivery thresholds

Define the necessary tax rates to include tax delivery thresholds in the system configuration.

> > [Info] As of July 2021, a new EU-wide threshold of 10,000 EUR applies. As soon as this threshold has been reached, all products must be taxed in the ship-to (delivery) country to the corresponding delivery country tax rate. For detailed information about the new cross-border taxation rules, see [VAT - One Stop Shop](https://vat-one-stop-shop.ec.europa.eu/index_en) or consult a tax advisor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [Info] Since July 2021, a new EU-wide threshold of EUR 10,000 has applied. As soon as this threshold has been reached, all products must be taxed in the ship-to (delivery) country to the corresponding delivery country tax rate. For detailed information about the new cross-border taxation rules, see [VAT - One Stop Shop](https://vat-one-stop-shop.ec.europa.eu/index_en) or consult a tax advisor.
```

[comment]: <> (Problem mit selber Tax zone wäre dann für die Decision Matrix, denn da kann man bei der Einstellung von jeder Zeile unterscheiden können.)

### Create a tax rate with the applicable delivery country VAT

> 

Reviewer: kurzen Einleitungssatz ergänzen

#### Prerequisites

- All applicable tax classes have been created, see [Create a tax class](./02_ManageTaxClasses.md#create-a-tax-class).
- All applicable tax zones have been created, see [Create a tax zone](./03_ManageTaxZones.md#create-a-tax-zone).

#### Procedures

*Taxes > Settings > Tab TAX RATES*

![Tax rates](../../Assets/Screenshots/Taxes/Settings/TaxRates/TaxRates.png "[Tax rates]")

1. Click the ![Add](../../Assets/Icons/Plus01.png "[Add]") (Add) button in the bottom right corner.   
The *Create tax rate* view is displayed.  

  ![Create a tax rate](../../Assets/Screenshots/Taxes/Settings/TaxRates/CreateTaxRate.png "[Create a tax rate]")

> 2. Enter the applicable delivery country VAT rate in the *Tax rate* field, for example 20% in the case of Austria. You can only enter numbers in the *Tax rate* field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Enter the applicable delivery country VAT rate in the *Tax rate* field, for example **20** in the case of Austria. You can only enter numbers in the *Tax rate* field.
```

> 3. Enter the corresponding tax key in the *Tax key* field, for example 751 for Austria. The applicable tax key must be checked in the *TAX KEYS* tab of the *Accounting* module. For detailed information, see [Manage the tax keys](../../RetailSuiteAccounting/Integration/02_ManageTaxKeys.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Enter the corresponding tax key in the *Tax key* field, for example **751** for Austria. The applicable tax key must be checked in the *TAX KEYS* tab of the *Accounting* module. For detailed information, see [Manage the tax keys](../../RetailSuiteAccounting/Integration/02_ManageTaxKeys.md).
```

> 4. Click the *Tax zone* drop-down list and select the appropriate tax zone, for example Austria/Austrian VAT. All available tax zones are displayed in the list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Click the *Tax zone* drop-down list and select the appropriate tax zone, for example **Austria/Austrian VAT**. All available tax zones are displayed in the list.
```

5. Click the *Tax class* drop-down list and select the appropriate tax class. All available tax classes are displayed in the list.

> 6. Click the ![Calendar](../../Assets/Icons/Calendar.png "[Calendar]") (Calendar) button to enter the applicable validity period start date in the *Start date* field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Click the ![Calendar](../../Assets/Icons/Calendar.png "[Calendar]") (Calendar) button in the *Start date* field to enter the applicable validity period start date.
```

  > [Info] The start date must be set at the time when the tax delivery threshold has been reached, since, as of this date, all revenues on products sold to any EU country must be taxed to the delivery country VAT rate. The start date can be set in the future.

> 7. Click the ![Calendar](../../Assets/Icons/Calendar.png "[Calendar]") (Calendar) button to enter the applicable validity period end date in the *End date* field, for example the end of the current fiscal year. The described example setting is displayed below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Click the ![Calendar](../../Assets/Icons/Calendar.png "[Calendar]") (Calendar) button in the *End date* field to enter the applicable validity period end date, for example the end of the current fiscal year. The described example setting is displayed below:
```

  ![Delivery country VAT](../../Assets/Screenshots/Taxes/Settings/TaxRates/CreateTaxRateThreshold01.png "[Delivery country VAT]")

8. Click the [SAVE] button.  
The *Create tax rate* view is closed and the list of tax rates is displayed again.  

9. Click the ![Refresh](../../Assets/Icons/Refresh01.png "[Refresh]") (Refresh) button in the upper right corner.   
The new tax rate is displayed in the list of tax rates.

### Create a tax rate with the applicable domestic VAT

> 

Reviewer: kurzen Einleitungssatz ergänzen

#### Prerequisites

- All applicable tax classes have been created, see [Create a tax class](./02_ManageTaxClasses.md#create-a-tax-class).
- All applicable tax zones have been created, see [Create a tax zone](./03_ManageTaxZones.md#create-a-tax-zone).

#### Procedures

*Taxes > Settings > Tab TAX RATES*

![Tax rates](../../Assets/Screenshots/Taxes/Settings/TaxRates/TaxRates.png "[Tax rates]")

1. Click the ![Add](../../Assets/Icons/Plus01.png "[Add]") (Add) button in the bottom right corner.   
The *Create tax rate* view is displayed.  

  ![Create a tax rate](../../Assets/Screenshots/Taxes/Settings/TaxRates/CreateTaxRate.png "[Create a tax rate]")

> 2. Enter the applicable delivery country VAT rate in the *Tax rate* field, for example 19% in the case of Germany. You can only enter numbers in the *Tax rate* field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Enter the applicable delivery country VAT rate in the *Tax rate* field, for example **19** in the case of Germany. You can only enter numbers in the *Tax rate* field.
```

>   > [Info] The first 10,000 EUR revenues on products sold from Germany to any EU country are taxable in Germany.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  > [Info] The first EUR 10,000 revenues on products sold from Germany to any EU country are taxable in Germany.
```

> 3. Enter the corresponding tax key in the *Tax key* field, for example 3 for Germany. The applicable tax key must be checked in the *TAX KEYS* tab of the *Accounting* module. For detailed information, see [Manage the tax keys](../../RetailSuiteAccounting/Integration/02_ManageTaxKeys.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Enter the corresponding tax key in the *Tax key* field, for example **3** for Germany. The applicable tax key must be checked in the *TAX KEYS* tab of the *Accounting* module. For detailed information, see [Manage the tax keys](../../RetailSuiteAccounting/Integration/02_ManageTaxKeys.md).
```

4. Click the *Tax zone* drop-down list and select the appropriate tax zone, for example Austria/German VAT. All available tax zones are displayed in the list.

5. Click the *Tax class* drop-down list and select the appropriate tax class. All available tax classes are displayed in the list.

> 6. Click the ![Calendar](../../Assets/Icons/Calendar.png "[Calendar]") (Calendar) button to enter the applicable validity period start date in the *Start date* field. The start date must be set at the start of a fiscal year.
> 
> 7. Click the ![Calendar](../../Assets/Icons/Calendar.png "[Calendar]") (Calendar) button to enter the applicable validity period end date in the *End date* field. The domestic VAT rate must be valid until the delivery country VAT rate validity period starts. The described example setting is displayed below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Click the ![Calendar](../../Assets/Icons/Calendar.png "[Calendar]") (Calendar) button in the *Start date* field to enter the applicable validity period start date. The start date must be set at the start of a fiscal year.

7. Click the ![Calendar](../../Assets/Icons/Calendar.png "[Calendar]") (Calendar) button in the *End date* field to enter the applicable validity period end date. The domestic VAT rate must be valid until the delivery country VAT rate validity period starts. The described example setting is displayed below:
```

  ![Delivery country VAT](../../Assets/Screenshots/Taxes/Settings/TaxRates/CreateTaxRateThreshold02.png "[Delivery country VAT]")

8. Click the [SAVE] button.  
The *Create tax rate* view is closed and the list of tax rates is displayed again.  

9. Click the ![Refresh](../../Assets/Icons/Refresh01.png "[Refresh]") (Refresh) button in the upper right corner.   
The new tax rate is displayed in the list of tax rates.

> > [Note] Repeat steps **1** to **9** of both procedures to create the applicable tax rates for all relevant countries.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [Note] Repeat steps **1** to **9** of the *Create a tax rate with the applicable delivery country VAT* and the *Create a tax rate with the applicable domestic VAT* procedure to create the applicable tax rates for all relevant countries.  
```
